Add information about bundle size in Angular (#3436)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: concepts/40 Angular Components/40 Common Features/10 Tree Shaking.md

## Tree Shaking

> Tree shaking removes unused portions of source and library code to reduce the downloaded size of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tree shaking mechanism removes unused portions of source and library code to reduce the downloaded size of the application.
```

> Tree shaking already works if you import only the modules that you use in your application. For instance, the following import takes only the `DxButtonModule` from the `devextreme-angular` module:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tree shaking mechanism checks whether you import only the modules used in your application. For instance, the following import takes the `DxButtonModule` from the `devextreme-angular` module:
```

## Tree Shaking

The tree shaking mechanism removes unused portions of source and library code to reduce the downloaded size of the application.

> The tree shaking mechanism checks whether you import only the modules used in your application. For instance, the following import takes the `DxButtonModule` from the `devextreme-angular` module:

Reviewer 2: Is it possible to emphasize the word "import" (for example, with bold font)?

Reviewer: Yes

Reviewer 2: Thanks.

> The tree shaking mechanism checks whether you import only the modules used in your application. For instance, the following import takes the `DxButtonModule` from the `devextreme-angular` module:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tree shaking mechanism checks whether you import only the modules used in your application. For instance, the following **import** takes the `DxButtonModule` from the `devextreme-angular` module:
```

Reviewer 2: Since we already mention "The tree shaking mechanism" in line 3 above, can we change the phrase to "This mechanism" on this line?

`This mechanism checks whether you import only the modules used in your application. For instance, the following **import** takes the `DxButtonModule` from the `devextreme-angular` module:`

    <!--TypeScript-->

>     import { DxButtonModule } from 'devextreme-angular';

Reviewer 2: Line 10 below:
`If tree shaking is not configured in your application, import exports from specific modules instead of the main `devextreme-angular` module to reduce the bundle size:`

See my comment above regarding "import".

Reviewer: updated

    <!--TypeScript-->
    import { DxButtonModule } from 'devextreme-angular/ui/button';

Please note that the tree shaking mechanism works only when you create the **production** bundle.

## Bundle Size

DevExtreme code can be divided to three main groups:
1) Utilities Code.
2) Data Visualization Components Code.
3) Ui Components Code.

Utilities Code is the code that is used by all our components. This code is always imported to the application when you add a DevExtreme component. It can't be removed by the Tree Shaking mechanim as our components won't work without it. An example of such code is our Option Manager or Events Engine.

Data Visualization components code is independent. This means that you can import the Chart module and this will add only the Chart component code to the bundle. However, the Chart component is quite complex, so it will affect the size of the resulting bundle.

> The code of UI Components mostly independent. This means that you can import a simple component (such as dxButton) and the resulting bundle will contain only this component code. However, complex components, such as dxDataGrid, depend on multiple simple components. So, if you import dxDataGrid to the application, the resulting bundle will contain the dxScrollView, dxButton, dxSelectBox, dxTextBox and other components code.

Reviewer 3: just a minor suggestion to add a couple of popular components  here 
such as dxDataGrid -> such as dxDataGrid, dxScheduler, dxPivotGrid, etc. , include simple components...
and here:
So, if you import dxDataGrid to the application, the resulting bundle will contain the dxScrollView, dxButton, dxSelectBox, **dxForm**, **dxPopup** and other smaller components.

Author: Fixed

    <!--TypeScript-->
    import { DxButtonModule } from 'devextreme-angular/ui/button';

> Please note that the tree shaking mechanism works only when you create the **production** bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[note]The tree shaking mechanism works only when you create the **production** bundle.
```

## Bundle Size

> We divide DevExtreme code into three main groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DevExtreme code consists of three main code groups:
```

> 1) Utilities Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Utilities Code
```

> All DevExtreme components use Utilities Code. The application always imports it when you add a DevExtreme component. It can't be removed by the Tree Shaking mechanim as our components won't work without it. An example of such code is our Option Manager or Events Engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    An application imports Utilities Code, when you add a DevExtreme component. Utilities Code is mandatory for DevExtreme components and the tree shaking mechanim does not remove it. 
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure that the following sentence is required in the topic. 
> An example of such code is our Option Manager or Events Engine.

Reviewer: It would be good to add links from the Option Manager and Event Engine if we leave them in the topic.

> 2) Data Visualization Components Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Data Visualization Components Code
```

> Data Visualization components code is independent. This means that you can import the Chart module and this will add only the Chart component code to the bundle. However, the Chart component is quite complex, so it will affect the size of the resulting bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The bundle includes Data Visualization components code if you use the Chart component in your application. Data Visualization components code has a large size and may affect the resulting bundle.
```

> 3) UI Components Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- UI Components Code
```

> The code of UI Components mostly independent. This means that you can import a simple component (such as dxButton) and the resulting bundle will contain only this component code. However, complex components, such as dxDataGrid, dxScheduler, dxPivotGrid, etc., depend on multiple simple components. So, if you import dxDataGrid to the application, the resulting bundle will contain the dxScrollView, dxButton, dxSelectBox, dxTextBox, DxPopup, dxForm and other components code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The size of UI Components Code depends on components that you use in your application. For example, you can import a simple component (such as [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/)) and the resulting bundle will contain only this component code. Complex components (such as [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/), [Scheduler](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Scheduler/Getting_Started_with_Scheduler/), or [PivotGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/PivotGrid/Getting_Started_with_PivotGrid/)) include multiple simple components. If you import [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/) to your application, the bundle includes code of the [ScrollView](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/ScrollView/Overview/), [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/), [TextBox](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/TextBox/Overview/), [Form](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Form/Getting_Started_with_Form/) and other components .
```

> The size of UI Components Code depends on components that you use in your application. For example, you can import a simple component (such as [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/)) and the resulting bundle will contain only this component code. Complex components (such as [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/), [Scheduler](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Scheduler/Getting_Started_with_Scheduler/), or [PivotGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/PivotGrid/Getting_Started_with_PivotGrid/)) include multiple simple components. If you import [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/) to your application, the bundle includes code of the [ScrollView](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/ScrollView/Overview/), [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/), [TextBox](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/TextBox/Overview/), [Form](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Form/Getting_Started_with_Form/) and other components .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The size of UI Components Code depends on components that you use in your application. For example, you can import a simple component (such as [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/)) and the resulting bundle will contain only this component code. Complex components (such as [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/), [Scheduler](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Scheduler/Getting_Started_with_Scheduler/), or [PivotGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/PivotGrid/Getting_Started_with_PivotGrid/)) include multiple simple components. If you import [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/) to your application, the bundle includes code of the [ScrollView](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/ScrollView/Overview/), [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/), [TextBox](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/TextBox/Overview/), [Form](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Form/Getting_Started_with_Form/) and other components .
```

> To summarize, if you use complex UI and Data Visualization in the application, the resulting bundle will include almost all DevExtreme controls. However, if you use only some components, the Tree Shaking mechanism will remove unnecessary code from the production bundle. You can read more about the bundle size in DevExtreme Angular applications in this [GitHub issue](https://github.com/DevExpress/devextreme-angular/issues/811). Here is a small comparison table that contains information about the size of common modules after you import them to the application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To summarize, the tree shaking mechanism does not affect the resulting bundle if you use complex UI and Data Visualization in the application. However, if you use simple components, the tree shaking mechanism will remove unnecessary code from the production bundle. Refer to the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/DevExpress/devextreme-angular/issues/811) to get more details about the bundle size in DevExtreme Angular applications.

The table below contains information about the size of common modules after you import them to the application:
```

    <!--TypeScript-->
    import { DxButtonModule } from 'devextreme-angular/ui/button';

[note]The tree shaking mechanism works only when you create the **production** bundle.

## Bundle Size

DevExtreme code consists of three main code groups:
- Utilities Code

>     An application imports Utilities Code, when you add a DevExtreme component. Utilities Code is mandatory for DevExtreme components and the tree shaking mechanim does not remove it. 

Reviewer 2: Can we make "it" more specific? For example, do you mean "this code"?

Reviewer: Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    An application imports Utilities Code, when you add a DevExtreme component. Utilities Code is mandatory for DevExtreme components and the tree shaking mechanim does not remove this code. 
```

Author: Sure. Let's make it "this code".

Reviewer 2: Thanks. Can you also remove the comma before "when"?

- Data Visualization Components Code

>     The bundle includes Data Visualization components code if you use the Chart component in your application. Data Visualization components code has a large size and may affect the resulting bundle.

Reviewer 2: 1. In both sentences, please add an article before "Data Visualization components code".

2. I'd like to clarify "large size". For example, do you mean "large file size"?

Reviewer: Both suggestions are applied. Thank you.

>     The bundle includes Data Visualization components code if you use the Chart component in your application. Data Visualization components code has a large size and may affect the resulting bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The bundle includes the Data Visualization components code if you use the Chart component in your application. The Data Visualization components code has a large file size and may affect the resulting bundle.
```

- UI Components Code

>     The size of UI Components Code depends on components that you use in your application. For example, you can import a simple component (such as [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/)) and the resulting bundle will contain only this component code. Complex components (such as [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/), [Scheduler](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Scheduler/Getting_Started_with_Scheduler/), or [PivotGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/PivotGrid/Getting_Started_with_PivotGrid/)) include multiple simple components. If you import [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/) to your application, the bundle includes code of the [ScrollView](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/ScrollView/Overview/), [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/), [TextBox](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/TextBox/Overview/), [Form](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Form/Getting_Started_with_Form/) and other components .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The size of the UI Components Code depends on components that you use in your application. For example, you can import a simple component (such as [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/)) and the resulting bundle will contain only this component code. Complex components (such as [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/), [Scheduler](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Scheduler/Getting_Started_with_Scheduler/), or [PivotGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/PivotGrid/Getting_Started_with_PivotGrid/)) include multiple simple components. If you import [DataGrid](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Getting_Started_with_DataGrid/) to your application, the bundle includes code of the [ScrollView](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/ScrollView/Overview/), [Button](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Button/Getting_Started_with_Button/), [TextBox](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/TextBox/Overview/), [Form](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Form/Getting_Started_with_Form/), and other components .
```

> To summarize, the tree shaking mechanism does not affect the resulting bundle if you use complex UI and Data Visualization in the application. However, if you use simple components, the tree shaking mechanism will remove unnecessary code from the production bundle. Refer to the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/DevExpress/devextreme-angular/issues/811) to get more details about the bundle size in DevExtreme Angular applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To summarize, the tree shaking mechanism does not affect the resulting bundle if you use a complex UI and Data Visualization in the application. However, if you use simple components, the tree shaking mechanism will remove unnecessary code from the production bundle. Refer to the following Github issue for more details about bundle size in DevExtreme Angular applications: [Large Bundle Size - Angular](https://github.com/DevExpress/devextreme-angular/issues/811).
```
